#Description: What started out as a homepage for my information turned into an opportunity to work with AWS, databases and JWT authentication. I am on a job hunt after Covid decimated the hospitality industry so I’ve been taking CS50 in my spare time and trying to prepare myself for life as a software engineer. I felt that having a webpage that I had built in my portfolio would be a good way to demonstrate what I had learnt so far.

I built the page using HTML/CSS and populated it with information, images and hyperlinks as well as testimonials from former colleagues. I used the experience from PSET8 and 9 to do this. CSS is not my strong suit so this was boiler-plated from a previous project and some of the code from pset9 was included for the header and footer. I think the homepage looks clean and I hope to add more jinja in the future after I am more comfortable with it. The testimonials section proved to be the trickiest and it was when I hardcoded these original testimonials that I realised it would be useful for a user to log in and provide testimonials themselves. The username, password and testimonials could be stored in a separate database and displayed on the website that way.

We had already used databases in pset9 but I wanted to try something more related to DevOps and to challenge myself. I took some courses in AWS, Azure and Databases and began to work on expanding the scope of my project. This required multiple .py files to be created and to be linked together in order for the API to work. 

After researching encryption and authentication/authorisation further, I decided on Json Web Tokens as an authenticator. I chose these as I wanted to try something I hadn't experienced on the course yet. This proved to be the most difficult aspect but I feel like the back-end of the code is very good. The developer side can add users, delete users and log them in, producing a JWT that allows the user to stay logged in and enter their testimonial. I wanted to develop the client side further but I have ran out of time! There are no passwords stored in the code, and the unique key is stored on the developer side for maximum security.

I chose AWS as a deployment server as I have taken the Azure fundamentals course so I wanted to show potential employers I could work with both. AWS feels better constructed and building the databases with Postgres proved an interesting challenge.

Doing this project gave me great experience in deployment, git, python (flask) and a few other things. Probably the most important lesson was source control after one late night fiddling with the code and managing to break the entire structure.

Overall I am happy with how it has progressed but it has also gotten quite complex and I'm running out of time for my job hunt!
